Creative Brief: What are we designing, who are we designing for? Who is the audience? 
Primary and Secondary meaning. 
5 adjectives to describe the brand ---> what am I trying to get across?? 

Visual Design Purposes: 1. Emotion, 2. Description, 3. Structure, 4. Communication (communicate without saying a word)
The logo alone can set the stage for a feeling about the brand. 
Putting your thoughts on paper is very important. The first design is usually not the chosen one. 
Emotion: Heart in Airbnb announcements

Structure: Airbnb example: Search is prominent, there is a primary draw for the page. 
		   The how-to process is generally simplified with visual design, including a step that includes an image and text. 


Basic Elements: Layout, Graphics, Text, Color

Layout: Contrast: weight, size, typography, hierarchy
        Alignment: 101 to get down, separates clean design from non-good one. 
        Repetition: using similar patterns throughout the design, consistency, makes things feel unified
        Proximity: things that are related are close together, things that are different are farther away


The Grid: Really useful for alignment. 
          Dribble -> to get a grid
          CSS -> 960 grid system 


Graphics: 
Graphical Elements: Most common elements are lines, 
                    Geometric shapes, 
                    Textures: mostly used offline but making its way online
                    Icons: specifically in mobile
                    Photos: really makes an impact on sites, can sometimes be used with illustrations, does not often work: Stock photos, unsplash, death to stock photo, 
                    Illustrations: Know when to use them depending on objectives, creative market, sketch (built for UI design), freeicon.com, 

Example: Yahoo weather app: bringing beautiful photography to the weather app. When showing the weather information, the photo is blurred so to not confuse the reader. Lots of icons and lines are used in the app. 

Hipmunk: All using geometric shapes with icons. Simple 101 type graphical elements. 


Typography: 

Font vs. Typeface

Typeface: actual name of the type
Font: varying forms of the typeface, bold, italic, demi, medium, etc. 

FontSquirrel -> great site to get fonts and also to create webfonts. 

Most common Typefaces: Helvetica 
Other commont Typefaces: Helvetica Neue, Proxima Nova, Open Sans, Avenir, Lato, Futura, Tahoma, Myraid, Arial

Most important things for Typefaces: Size, size scaling for responsive design, line spacing, line height, contrast, scale, color (slight gray or off white)

x height: from the top to the bottom of the letter
kerning: space between specific letters

On mobile it's important to get right to the content without extra information.

typeconnect : website to try out typefaces and see how well they work together 
fontfox : website to guess the typeface (gamified)

Color: Color theory ---> Most common use of colors: complimentary colors. Generally limit color choices to 2-3 not more. Adobe Kuler is a great site for color palettes. 

Screens show color differently. Color on screens looks different than on Print. 

Screen: use RGB
Print: use CYMK 

Pantone colors: used for print, can use the pantone palette, very expensive to print. 

Color Meaning: Red: Passion, love, anger
               Orange: health, vitality
               Yellow: happiness, cheer, hope
               Green: money, nature, growth
               Blue: calm, energetic, reliable
               Purple: royal, wealth, creative
               Black: elegance, mystery, evil
               White: clean, pure, virtue
               Brown: nature, dependable
               Gray: formal, conservative
               Gold: accent color

Colormatter: website with color meanings and how people perceive color 



